Welcome, in this video, I'm going to show the common
issue that happens with Git, as provided by Apple,
after the yearly Mac OS upgrade and how to fix it.
Every year Apple has provided a significant
update to Mac OS. This year is no exception.
However, each time that happens Git,
along with other utilities provided by Apple's command
line developer tools, get messed up in the update.
Now this doesn't happen with the
occasional patches throughout the year;
for example going from 10.13.3 to
10.13.4 won't cause any issues.
This seems to happen only during the more
significant code name changing updates
like upgrading from High Sierra (10.13) to Mojave (10.14)
Prior to the upgrade my installed version of Git,
which is included with Xcode or via the command
line developer tools, worked perfectly fine.
Now, post upgrade, I have some issues.
Let's check it out.
With my terminal open I still have the Git binary,
or at least a symlink on my system's path.
"which git",
which is located at "/usr/bin/git".
If Git is located at another location then you
aren't using the Apple provided Git binary.
Now, when I go to check the version of Git installed,
"git version", I get an error message like this.
I've encountered this error each year
that I performed the Mac OS upgrade.
By now my only surprise is that Apple
still hasn't fixed this issue.
All right, time for the solution.
It's basically reinstall the command
line developer tools with this command:
"sudo xcode-select  --install"
Actually the sudo part is optional;
Mac OS will simply prompt you for your credentials
before proceeding if you don't use sudo.
Now press enter to continue.
Now I'm prompted for my password, which is
required to run any command using sudo.
After that you'll be prompted to
either get Xcode, not now, or install.
Of course the middle option simply cancels this process.
The first option sends you to the Mac App Store
to download the latest version of Xcode,
which will include the command line developer tools.
The last option, install, will just install the
command line developer's tool part of the code suite.
That is the option I normally use, since I don't use Xcode
and there's no point in downloading a multi-gigabyte
application I'm not planning to use otherwise.
If you want to install everything, go right ahead.
You'll get Git and other tools updated that way as well.
For everyone else just click install to continue.
After that you'll be greeted with a license agreement dialog.
Feel free to read it if you so desire.
Otherwise continue by clicking on "Agree".
Now the installer will download and re-install
the latest copy of the command line developer
tools compatible with your system.
This will likely take several minutes, but I'll
speed things up with the magic of video editing.
Great. Once complete, click on the done button.
Once back to the terminal we should able to check
Git's version and not have an error this time.
"git version".
Awesome, it looks like we are back in business.
Well this really completes this video, but I
wanted to address one other topic while I'm here.
Sicne I'm certain someone will ask or pointed out
that's regarding alternative ways to install Git.
Yes it is true you can use package managers
like homebrew or MacPorts to install Git.
However they have their own issues, especially
if you do plan to use Xcode at any point.
This is why I generally recommend sticking with the flavor
of Git provided by Apple, it just keeps things simple.
If you already have your favorite package
manager and you never plan to use Xcode,
or at least you're comfortable overcoming the
conflicts, then you can certainly go that route.
You are likely to end up with a slightly newer version of Git,
but not enough to make a meaningful difference in daily work.